>> Jen Kramer: Now what would happen
if you're using this on a phone?
>> Jen Kramer: Anybody ever
clicked on a link on a phone?
>> Speaker 2: Don't necessarily hit the
correct one cuz they're so close together.
>> Jen Kramer: They're kind of close
together for your fat finger, aren't they?
[LAUGH] And
everybody has fat fingers, all right?
So we need to put a little
bit of space between these.
How might we go about doing that?
>> Speaker 2: Margin?
Add the bo-
>> Jen Kramer: Could be margin,
could be padding.
>> Jen Kramer: And on which element?
[SOUND] There's a lot
of possibilities here.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: On the links themselves?
>> Jen Kramer: It could be on the links
themselves, it could be on the li.
Okay, most of the styling going forward
now that we've gotten our
ul all cleaned up here,
most of the styling going forward is
either gonna be the li or on the a, okay?
And so I'll show you some examples
of things that we can do here.
Let's say that we wanna make all of
these buttons look like all, I'm sorry,
all of these links look like a button,
okay?
In other words, we wanna have
a nice looking box, all right?
Let's say we wanna have a nice looking box
and we want the whole box to be clickable.
Sound good?
Okay, so let's start by saying that
we're gonna assign a width to our li.
Let's say that that width is, and
you can make it whatever you want,
let's say it's 100 or sorry,
10rems cuz that's a nice convenient size.
And since it doesn't look
like anything happened there,
let's also give it a background color,
>> Jen Kramer: Of red, okay?
So there's the start of our buttons.
>> Jen Kramer: What should we do next?
>> Speaker 2: Change the-
>> Jen Kramer: Emma?
>> Speaker 2: Change the border so
it's visible.
>> Jen Kramer: You wanna change
the border so it's visible?
>> Speaker 2: Around each of the-
>> Jen Kramer: You wanna see the li-
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Jen Kramer: And the a or?
>> Speaker 2: Under li.
>> Jen Kramer: You wanna see the li?
Okay, I'm gonna change my green to
something else, let's make it yellow.
I try never to use green and red together
online because there are a lot of color
blind people out there,
I'm also gonna make this solid.
>> Speaker 2: I guess that would make
the whole thing a button though?
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
that's what's going on there.
And then just so
you can see what's going on here
let's go nav a and
let's set up a border here as well,
border: is 3 px solid, or dotted orange.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, can you see that?
Maybe white is better.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay?
So you can see that those links
are only as big as their text, right?
Whereas the lis or
nice block level elements,
they're al lined up nice and neat.
What might be something you
wanna do next for these buttons?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So you could add spacing.
And what if you change
the size of the text then with
the spacing increase too-
>> Jen Kramer: We could change the size of
the text.
All right, so
do we change the size of the text where?
>> Speaker 2: Will do nav a.
>> Jen Kramer: On, the a?
Okay, so let's change the size
of the text on the a,
font-size, let's say 1.5rem, okay?
So we made them bigger, good.
What else would people like to do?
Are you happy with link color?
You want green on a red background?
>> Speaker 2: You said-
>> Speaker 3: White.
>> Speaker 2: You like using red and
green?
>> Jen Kramer: I don't like using red and
green.
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE] White.
>> Speaker 2: Don't [LAUGH]
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah,
there are a lot of color
blind people out there.
10% of the population is color blind,
we avoid red and green.
>> Speaker 3: I made them white.
>> Jen Kramer: White?
White sounds like a lovely color, okay.
Color: white.
Do we want them bold?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Jen Kramer: Sure.
Sure, we want them bold.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Jen Kramer: Font weight: bold, great.
Are you happy with
the way they're lined up?
>> Jen Kramer: No?
>> Speaker 3: Centered.
>> Jen Kramer: You want them centered?
How do we center them?
>> Speaker 3: Text-align.
>> Jen Kramer: Text-align.
>> Jen Kramer: Whoops, that didn't work.
Why didn't that work?
>> Speaker 2: Is it because the margin is
only around that part of the word and so
there's no room to move?
>> Jen Kramer: Exactly.
That's exactly it.
So these are inline elements,
they're only as big as their box, so
by putting my text-align center on my
a I centered them inside of their boxes,
did exactly what we told them to do.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Jen Kramer: I hate it when that
happens.
So we need to move this somewhere else.
Where might be a good place to put that?
>> Speaker 2: Li?
>> Jen Kramer: I'll bet on the LI, okay.
So the nav li let's put our
text-align center there.
>> Speaker 3: Is a reason not to do it
in body just because it's lower down or?
>> Jen Kramer: Well, if you did it on body
then everything on your web page would
be-
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: Align center-
>> Speaker 3: Yeah-
>> Jen Kramer: Right?
>> Speaker 3: Yes so we're just working
with [INAUDIBLE] right not.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah,
you probably don't want that, okay.
>> Jen Kramer: I hear a graphic designer
online screaming that they really,
really hate the underlines,
am I right on that?
Okay.
Nobody here in the classroom's screaming
about it, but somebody out there is.
So let's go on ahead and
get rid of the underlines.
How do we do that?
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: We need to go to the a,
or I suppose forward here.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah, nav a, mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: We can do
text decoration none.
>> Jen Kramer: Text decoration: none.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay?
>> Jen Kramer: Anything else?
>> Jen Kramer: Are you happy
with the size of the buttons?
The spacing of the buttons?
The clickable area of the buttons?
>> Speaker 2: I'd want
more space between them.
>> Jen Kramer: You want more
space between the buttons?
Okay, how would we get some
How many say that's padding?
>> Jen Kramer: Two votes for padding.
How many say that's margin
between the buttons?
Three people say that's margin, four
people, five people say that's margin.
The margins have it.
Okay, and
where are we gonna put that margin?
>> Speaker 3: The bottom?
>> Jen Kramer: You're gonna
put the margin on the body?
>> Jen Kramer: We wanna put
margin between the buttons.
>> Speaker 3: I said
the bottom of each button.
>> Jen Kramer: The bottom of each,
which one?
>> Speaker 3: Li-
>> Jen Kramer: At the bottom of each
LI, okay?
So we'll say margin bottom:
something like 1rem.
Did that help?
>> Jen Kramer: Little much?
Wanna do a little less?
You can play with this stuff for
hours trying to find the perfect
dimension, okay, all right?
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: Can we make the whole
background area clickable?
>> Jen Kramer: Yes, we can make
the whole background area clickable.
That is a fabulous trick.